---
title: A5.1 - Noise Filtering using 1€ Filter
author: Jaan Tollander de Balsch - 452056
date: \today
header-includes: \usepackage{unicode-math}
---
## The Algorithm
The [*One Euro Filter*](http://cristal.univ-lille.fr/~casiez/1euro/) [@one_euro_filter] implements a low pass filter

\[
\hat{X}_i = α X_i + (1-α) \hat{X}_{i-1}
\tag{low-pass-filter}
\label{low-pass-filter}
\]

where the smoothing factor \(α∈[0, 1]\), instead of being a constant, is adaptive, i.e. dynamically computed using information about the rate of change (speed) of the signal. This aims to balance the jitter versus lag trade-off since people are more sensitive to jitter at low speeds and more sensitive to lag at high speeds. The smoothing factor is defined as

\[
α = \frac{1}{1 + \frac{τ}{T_e}},
\tag{smoothing-factor}
\label{smoothing-factor}
\]

where

1) The \(τ\) is time constant computed using the cutoff frequency.
\[
τ = \frac{1}{2πf_C}
\tag{time-constant}
\]

2) The cutoff frequency \(f_C\) which is designed to increase linearly as the speed increases.
\[
f_C=f_{C_{min}} + β|\dot{\hat{X}}_i|
\tag{cutoff-frequency}
\]

3) The sampling period \(T_e\) which is the time difference between the samples
\[T_e=T_i-T_{i-1}. \tag{sampling-period}\]

4) The speed \(\dot{\hat{X}}_i\) which is calculated using \(\eqref{low-pass-filter}\) with a constant cutoff frequency \(f_{C_d}\), and therefore constant \(\eqref{smoothing-factor}\), from the discrete derivative of the samples \[\dot{X}_i = \frac{X_i-X_{i-1}}{T_e}. \tag{derivative}\]

There are two configurable parameters in the model.

1) The minimum cutoff frequency. Decresing this value will decrease slow speed jitter.
\[f_{C_{min}}>0 \tag{minimum-cutoff-frequency}\]

2) The speed coefficient. Increasing this value will decrease speed lag.
\[β>0 \tag{speed-coefficient}\]

Having only two parameters makes the model simple and easier to understand and tune.

## Results

\[f_{C_{min}} ∈ [0.01, 0.001]\]

\[β=[0.05, 0.001]\]

## References
