---
title: A1.1 - Computational Design with Combinatorial Optimization
author: Jaan Tollander de Balsch, 452056
date: \today
header-includes: \usepackage{unicode-math}
---
## The Problem

<!-- ```
optimize(
  iterations,
  search_algorithm (solver),
  layout (arg 0),
  columns (arg 1),
  objective_function (arg 2),
  weights (arg 3, o_input 0),
  associations (arg 4, o_input 1),
)
``` -->

* \(E\) denotes the set of elements \(\{e_1,…,e_n\}\) in the menu.
* \(r\) is a positive real number denoting the time to read an element between top of menu and target.
* \(c\) is an integer denoting the desired number of columns in the grid.
* \(d:E×E→ℝ^+\) is a distance function that measures the distance between two elements in the grid layout.
* \(w:E→ℝ^+\) denotes the weight function which
* \(a:E×E→ℝ^+\) association function

`Linear_ST`: Linear selection time

\begin{equation}
f_{LS}(E) = \sum_{e∈E}  w(e) ⋅ d(e_1,e) ⋅ r
\tag{selection-time-objective}
\label{selection-time-objective}
\end{equation}

`myObjective`: Associations between elements

\begin{equation}
f_{A}(E) = \sum_{(e_i,e_j)∈E×E} d(e_i,e_j) ⋅ a(e_i,e_j)
\tag{association-objective}
\label{association-objective}
\end{equation}

The objective function

\begin{equation}
f(E)=f_{LS}(E)+w_A f_A(E),
\label{objective}
\tag{objective}
\end{equation}

where \(w_A\) is positive real number denoting the weight of the association objective.

The combinatorial design problem is to find the design that minimized the objective function.


## A1.1 Multi-objective Optimization
### 1. Weighted sum multi-objective criterion
Increasing the weight \(w_A\) increases the importance of the associations between the elements, i.e. solutions in which the distance between the associated element is smaller will be favored more. Vice versa, by decreasing the value of \(w_A\), the importance of the associations between elements will decrease.

### 2. Normalization
The problem with defining the objective function like \(\eqref{objective}\), is that if the weights \(w\) are scaled by multiplying by a constant (not zero), the ratios between the weight do not change and therefore the optimal solution for only optimizing for linear selection time would not change. However, it would diminish the effect of the weight \(w_A\) and therefore the objective on the associations between the elements. In order to combat this the objective function can be normalized. Normalization can be implemented as:

\begin{equation}
f_N(E)=v ⋅ N(f_{LS}(E)) + (1-v) ⋅ N(f_A(E)),
\label{normalized-objective}
\tag{normalized-objective}
\end{equation}

where \(v∈[0,1]\) and \(N:ℝ→[0,1]\) is a normalization function that scales values into a range from \(0\) to \(1\) by dividing all the values of the original function by the maximum value of the original function.


### 3. Pareto Frontier
- TODO: obtain pareto optimal designs by changing value \(v\)?
- TODO: track independent values of \(f_{LS}\) and \(f_A\)


## Improving a solver
